# SoC-2023
I'd learnt many new things from my SoC Project of Competitive Programming under mentorship of Virendra Kabra. I felt like this is in the continuation of our course CS 101 where I left off. Starting from week 1 which were the basic STL of C++ like vectors, maps, sets, etc..., those were quite easy to understand then I did 8-10 problems from the introductory problems portion of CSES that was given by my mentor, then going onto week 2 which was mainly on sorting & serching like covering basic sorting techniques & binary searching etc following which we discussed some popular problems related to these topics.
Then comes the week 3 which seems to be a little tougher for me to understand at the time of meet, which was on graphs & trees like what is graph & tree? How to traverse them - by depth first search method & breadth first search method & their algorithms, then some popular algorithms to find shortest paths between any two nodes, detecting negative cycles - Dijkstra's algorithm, Bellman Ford algorithm, Floyd Warshall algorithm then little bit about DAGs & then the topological sort algorithm. 
Then, we started with Week 4 which deals with concepts like Divide & Conquer approach which not only helps in reducing time complexity but also split large problem in smaller fragments which makes the problem easier to solve, along with it week 4 also deals with greedy algorithms which seeks only at optimal solution at a point helping tough problems to get easy to think and implement in code.
Week 5 starts with dynamic programming which helps very much to decrease time complexity in very optimised manner like saving the things which already gets implemented before so there is no need to calculate them again which helps very much in reducing time complexity.
Week 6 basically deals with range queries - Implementing a operation in a specified range of an arrayusing prefix arrays, sparse table - pre calculating range queries in powers of 2, this is another way to approach for a range query problem, then if there comes a case of updating array along with performing range queries then in that case prefix array or sparse table is not much efficient way to do so there comes the concept of fenwick tree which helps in solving the probloem that I mentioned just now here we concluded with our week 6.
Problems of Week 7 are still left but it is much easier relatively others containing flows & some of its terminologies, after which Foed Fulkernson algorithm to implement maximal flow from source to sink. After that last concept of week 7 is tries which basically is helps to contain words in the form of trees.
Thats it till now, enjoying every week of this SoC-2023 except few which are a bit difficult for me.
Now i'm done with my week 8 i.e. whole SoC-2023, last week basically covers the concept of flows which is to find the augmented path in a graph using Ford Fulkernson algorithm & Tries wich deals with storing words in form of tree storing an alphabet in a single node.
